oncue: Discuss polling and non-functional entiies (#25301)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/oncue.markdown

- [KG80R](https://kohlerpower.com/en/residential/generators/product/kg80r)

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Non-functional and Incorrect Entities

> Some entities do not function with some generators.  For example the 20RESA does not report engine coolant temperature, and it will show as 0C (32F).  Also enot related are engine compartment temperature, current, and all related (power) entities.  On the 20RESA at least, the total generated power entry appears bogus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some sensors will report unrealistic values if the generator does not have support for the sensor. For example, the `20RESA` does not report engine coolant temperature, and it will show as 0C (32F). Also unrelated are engine compartment temperature, current, and all related (power) entities. On the `20RESA`, at least, the total generated power may not report a valid value.
```

Reviewer 2: I have a 20resa and get those, but I do have an engine heater installed since I’m in a cold climate.

Author: Interesting.  Do you get *coolant temperature* as this is, I think, an air-cooled engine.  I can see compartment temp, and I also wonder about current/power.   (The generator i am monitoring is not mine and it is in Massachusetts which is only sort of cold.)

Reviewer 2: These work on mine.   Also, the total generated power is a crazy large number, but it does seem to increase by a reasonable amount when the generator runs.  

```

          - entity: sensor.sagegen_battery_voltage
            name: Battery Voltage
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_engine_speed
            name: Engine Speed
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_engine_target_speed
            name: Engine Target Speed
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_engine_total_number_of_starts
            name: Engine Total Number Of Starts
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_engine_total_run_time
            name: Engine Total Run Time
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_engine_total_run_time_loaded
            name: Engine Total Run Time Loaded
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_generator_controller_temperature
            name: Generator Controller Temperature
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_generator_controller_total_operation_time
            name: Generator Controller Total Operation Time
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_generator_current_average
            name: Generator Current Average
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_generator_frequency
            name: Generator Frequency
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_generator_true_percent_of_rated_power
            name: Generator True Percent Of Rated Power
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_generator_true_total_power
            name: Generator True Total Power
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_generator_voltage_average_line_to_line
            name: Generator Voltage Average Line To Line
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_latest_firmware
            name: Latest Firmware
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_lube_oil_temperature
            name: Lube Oil Temperature
          - entity: binary_sensor.sagegen_network_connection_established
            name: Network Connection Established
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_source1_voltage_average_line_to_line
            name: Source1 Voltage Average Line To Line
          - entity: sensor.sagegen_source2_voltage_average_line_to_line
            name: Source2 Voltage Average Line To Line

` ` `

## Polling Considerations

> Currently the integration polls every 10 minutes.   Polling faster would have fresher data, and also use more resources.  Also there was at one point a report of someone being banned (unknown if permanent) for polling too often (unknown how fast).

Reviewer: You could lift this example with a small tweak 
https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/hunterdouglas_powerview/#force-update-shade-position

Reviewer 2: Yes, that what I do. Have an automation that polls @1 minute when the genset is running: otherwise 10 min

Author: Could you post yaml for that, for me to steal as an example?

Also, could you comment on whether there have been any issues from 1 minute polling, and why you don't just run at 1 min always?  I would think it takes up to 10 minutes to start the 1-min polling, but maybe you trigger on something else too.

> Currently the integration polls every 10 minutes.   Polling faster would have fresher data, and also use more resources.  Also there was at one point a report of someone being banned (unknown if permanent) for polling too often (unknown how fast).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the integration polls every 10 minutes. Polling at a quicker interval may result in Kohler blocking your access to the API. Polling faster would have fresher data and also use more resources.
```

Author: I was thinking that we really do not know what's going on, other than that this uses 10 minutes and there are no bug reports about blocking.  It's true that quicker "may" lead to blocks, but that sounds like 5 is scary and more is known than actually is.  (I'm editing and will force-push.)

- [KG80R](https://kohlerpower.com/en/residential/generators/product/kg80r)

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Non-functional and Incorrect Entities

> Different generators appear to support a different set of entities.  Examples for the 20RESA, without the engine heater option:  the engine coolant temperature sensor does not appear to actually exist, and it will show as 0C (32F), rather than e.g. `unavailable`.  Similarly, 0-ish values are shown for engine compartment temperature, current, all related (power) entities.   The total generated power entry shows an apparently fixed value that does not seem credible (18,285,792 kWh in one case, which is 18000 months of typical household usage!).   Similar behavior is seen for most of these entities on the official app.  With the engine heater option, at least some of these have useful values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each generator supports a different set of sensors. With the engine heater option, some of these have unrealistic values. One example for the 20RESA, without the engine heater option: the engine coolant temperature sensor does not seem to exist, and it will show as 0C (32F), rather than, e.g. `unavailable`. Similarly, this case shows 0-ish values for engine compartment temperature, current, and all related (power) entities. The total generated power sensor may show an unexpectedly high value, but it generally increments at the expected rate. This behavior matches the official app.
```

## Polling Considerations

> Currently, the integration polls every 10 minutes.   Polling faster would have fresher data, use more resources and may increase the risk of Kohler blocking access to the API.  At one point a report of someone being banned (unknown if permanent) for polling too often (unknown how fast), but it is not currently known what faster rates are safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the integration polls every 10 minutes. Polling faster would have fresher data, use more resources, and may increase the risk of Kohler blocking access to the API. There have been reports of being blocked (unknown if permanent) for polling too often.

It is possible to fetch new values by calling the [`homeassistant.update_entity`](/integrations/homeassistant/#service-homeassistantupdate_entity) service on the entities. An example might be automation that fires an update request once a minute while the generator runs.
```
